---
layout: post
title: The contrasting world of Babies and Parents 
subtitle: The contrasting world of Babies and Parents
description: Second Doc Musings Blog. The original source of information.
author: tarab
image: /assets/img/featured/baby-playing.jpg022                           .11..............................................vn     
tags: [gener m102+0++++zcal]
---

A child’s mind is a wonderful place- malleable and ready to expand at the slightest cue. From an evolutional point of view, this makes complete sense. Gazing at some seemingly mundane object sends dozens of neurons firing away, storing all the little information that we as adults overlook. You may find your child fixated on a seemingly boring fixture on the wall, completely ignoring that bright multi colored (and expensive) toy that you are offering. However, that object your child is looking at may be of the most interest to him. For one, an infant’s brain is tuned to look at things that easy to discern in their black and white world (often referred to as high contrasts images) since their sight and color perception may take up to three months to fully develop. Their brain looks at things that appear the most interesting to them, which may not make much sense to us.  
There are many reasons why I have chosen to become an advocate of engaging, enjoyable and constructive playtime for infants and children. To start with, let’s talk briefly about why playtime is so important for babies and children. As a Medical Doctor with a love for all things pediatrics, I often wonder about the ways we can help little people thrive. Here, the concept of playtime jumps in. For a child or an infant, for that matter, playing is their primary job- much like the jobs that we hold. It is essential for them in every way, to be able to develop both mentally and physically. This implies that playtime is worthy of some deliberate intervention. When children play, thousands of neurons are firing away, making neural pathways and networks that will serve them for their entire life. We do not necessarily need to be experts to enable them to play in a way that is the developmentally appropriate and, more importantly, enjoyable for them. Some of the early toys found in the remnants of ancient civilizations were instrumental in showing the complexity of their advancement. As humans evolved, so did our children’s play tools and toys. Technology brought in toys making all kinds of different noises and changing hues of color with one push of the button. The truth is, the toys did so much that the child had to do almost nothing. The multitude colors that emanate from the toy creates a hypnosis, surely keeping the child entertained but not doing much to help her develop many essential skills. Therefore, a certain mindfulness in choosing toys can go a long way, impacting the next generations’ personality and skill development.
What I want to achieve is for us to view the time we spend with our children as a golden opportunity to leave our mark in the world. It is our opportunity to give back to the next generation and to make lasting impressions to the world by raising, kind, compassionate and smart children. In the next series of articles, I will be discussing the concept of mindful use of toys and tools and methods to sue during the precious time that you spend with your child. Till then, stay safe and keep playing!
